Documentation for partitioned dbs (#385)
apache/couchdb-documentation: src/partitioned-dbs/index.rst

            ["2019-01-21T00:00:00", 0.15],
            ["2019-01-21T06:00:00", 0.14],
            ["2019-01-21T12:00:00", 0.16],
            ["2019-01-21T18:00:00", 0.11]
        ]
    }

.. note::
    While this example uses IoT sensors, the main thing to consider is that
    there is a logical grouping of documents. Similar use cases might be
    documents grouped by user or scientific data grouped by experiment.

So we've got a bunch of sensors, all grouped by the field they monitor
along with their readouts for a given day (or other appropriate time period).

Along with our documents we might expect to have two secondary indexes
for querying our database that might look something like:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf("sensor-reading-") != 0) {
            return;
        }
        for(var r in doc.readings) {
            emit([doc.sensor_id, r[0]], r[1])
        }
    }

and:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf("sensor-reading-") != 0) {
            return;
        }
        emit(doc.field_name, doc.sensor_id)
    }

With these two indexes defined we can easily find all requests for a given

> sensor or list all sensors in a given field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sensor, or list all sensors in a given field.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> Unfortunately, in CouchDB when we read from either of these indexes it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, in CouchDB, when we read from either of these indexes, it
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

requires finding a copy of every shard and asking for any documents related
to the particular sensor or field. This means that as our database scales

> up the number of shards, the more work every index request must perform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up the number of shards, every index request must perform more work.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> Fortunately for you dear reader, partitioned databases were created to solve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately for you, dear reader, partitioned databases were created to solve
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

this precise problem.

What is a partition?
====================

> In the previous section we introduced a hypothetical database that contains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous section, we introduced a hypothetical database that contains
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

sensor readings from an IoT field monitoring service. In this particular

> use case it's quite logical to group all documents by their ``sensor_id``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use case, it's quite logical to group all documents by their ``sensor_id``
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> field. In this case we would call the sensor_id the partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field. In this case, we would call the ``sensor_id`` the partition.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

A good partition has two basic properties. First, it should have a high
cardinality. That is, there is a large number of values for the partition.
A database that has a single partition would be an anti-pattern for this
feature. Secondly, the amount of data per partition should be "small". The
general recommendation is to limit individual partitions to less than ten

> gigabytes of data. Which for the example sensor documents equates to roughly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gigabytes of data. Which, for the example of sensor documents, equates to roughly
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

60,000 years of data.

Why use partitions?
===================

The primary benefit of using partitioned databases is for the performance
of partitioned queries. Large databases with lots of documents often
have a similar pattern where there are groups of related documents that
are queried together often.

> By using partitions we can execute queries against these individual groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using partitions, we can execute queries against these individual groups
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

of documents more efficiently by placing the entire group within a specific

> shard on disk. Thus the view engine only has to consult one copy of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shard on disk. Thus, the view engine only has to consult one copy of the
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> given shard range when executing a query instead of the normal requirement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
given shard range when executing a query instead of executing
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> having to execute the query across all ``Q`` shards in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the query across all ``Q`` shards in the database.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

Partitions By Example
=====================

> To create a partitioned database we simply need to pass a query string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a partitioned database, we simply need to pass a query string
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

parameter.

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl -X PUT http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db?partitioned=true
    {"ok":true}

> To see that our database is partitioned we can look at the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see that our database is partitioned, we can look at the database
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

information:

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db
    {
      "cluster": {
        "n": 3,
        "q": 8,
        "r": 2,
        "w": 2
      },
      "compact_running": false,
      "data_size": 0,
      "db_name": "my_new_db",
      "disk_format_version": 7,
      "disk_size": 66784,
      "doc_count": 0,
      "doc_del_count": 0,
      "instance_start_time": "0",
      "other": {
        "data_size": 0
      },
      "props": {
        "partitioned": true
      },
      "purge_seq": "0-g1AAAAFDeJzLYWBg4M...",
      "sizes": {
        "active": 0,
        "external": 0,
        "file": 66784
      },
      "update_seq": "0-g1AAAAFDeJzLYWBg4M..."
    }

You'll now see that the ``"props"`` member contains ``"partitioned": true``.

.. note::

    The format for document ids in a partitioned database is
    ``partition:docid``. Every regular document (i.e., everything
    except design and local documents) in a partitioned database

>     must follow this format.

Reviewer: How does this requirement apply to the `_users` database, where ids all contain `:` characters?  Does this mean that `_users` cannot be partitioned effectively?

Author: System database already have required document id formats so they're prohibited from being partitioned. I'll add that as a note.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> Now that we've created a partitioned database its time to add some documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've created a partitioned database, it's time to add some documents.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> Using our earlier example we could do this as such:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using our earlier example, we could do this as such:
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> cat doc.json
    {
        "_id": "sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf",
        "sensor_id": "sensor-260",
        "location": [41.6171031, -93.7705674],
        "field_name": "Bob's Corn Field #5",
        "readings": [
            ["2019-01-21T00:00:00", 0.15],
            ["2019-01-21T06:00:00", 0.14],
            ["2019-01-21T12:00:00", 0.16],
            ["2019-01-21T18:00:00", 0.11]
        ]
    }
    shell> $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
                http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db -d @doc.json
    {
        "ok": true,
        "id": "sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf",
        "rev": "1-05ed6f7abf84250e213fcb847387f6f5"
    }

The only change required to the first example document is that we are now

> including the partition name in the document id by prepending the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including the partition name in the document id by prepending it to the
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

old id separated by a colon.

.. note::

>     The partition name in the document id is not magical. Internally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The partition name in the document id is not magical. Internally,
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

    the database is simply using only the partition for hashing

>     the document to a given shard instead of the entire document id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the document to a given shard, instead of the entire document id.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

Working with documents in a partitioned database is no different than

> a non-partitioned database. All APIs are available and existing client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a non-partitioned database. All APIs are available, and existing client
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

code will all work seamlessly.

> Now that we have created a document we can get some info about the partition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have created a document, we can get some info about the partition
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

    {"total_rows": 1, "offset": 0, "rows":[
        {
            "id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf",
            "key":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf",
            "value": {"rev": "1-05ed6f7abf84250e213fcb847387f6f5"}
        }
    ]}

Note that we can use all of the normal bells and whistles available to
``_all_docs`` requests. Accessing ``_all_docs`` through the
``/dbname/_partition/name/_all_docs`` endpoint is mostly a convenience
so that requests are guaranteed to be scoped to a given partition. Users
are free to use the normal ``/dbname/_all_docs`` to read documents from
multiple partitions.

Next, we'll create a design document containing our index for
getting all readings from a given sensor. The map function is similar to
our earlier example except we've accounted for the change in the document
id.

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf(":sensor-reading-") < 0) {
            return;
        }
        for(var r in doc.readings) {
            emit([doc.sensor_id, r[0]], r[1])
        }
    }

> We can go ahead and upload our design document and try out a partitioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can upload our design document and try out a partitioned
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

query:

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> cat ddoc.json
    {
        "_id": "_design/sensor-readings",
        "views": {
            "by_sensor": {
                "map": "function(doc) { ... }"
            }
        }
    }
    shell> curl http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db/_partition/sensor-260/_design/sensor-readings/_view/by_sensor
    {"total_rows":4,"offset":0,"rows":[
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","0"],"value":null},
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","1"],"value":null},
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","2"],"value":null},
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","3"],"value":null}
    ]}

> Hooray! Our first partitioned query. For experienced users that may not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hooray! Our first partitioned query. For experienced users, that may not
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> be the most exciting development given that the only things that have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be the most exciting development, given that the only things that have
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> changed are a slight tweak to the document id and accessing views with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changed are a slight tweak to the document id, and accessing views with
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> a slightly different path. However, for anyone that likes performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a slightly different path. However, for anyone who likes performance
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> improvements its actually a big deal. By knowing that the view results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
improvements, its actually a big deal. By knowing that the view results
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> are all located within the provided partition name our partitioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are all located within the provided partition name, our partitioned
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

queries now perform nearly as fast as document lookups!

The last thing we'll look at is how to query data across multiple partitions.

> For that we'll implement the example sensors by field query from our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that, we'll implement the example sensors by field query from our
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

      },
      "views": {
        "by_field": {
          "map": "function(doc) { ... }"
        }
      }
    }
    shell> $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db -d @ddoc2.json
    {
        "ok": true,
        "id": "_design/all_sensors",
        "rev": "1-4a8188d80fab277fccf57bdd7154dec1"
    }

.. note::

    Design documents in a partitioned database default to being
    partitioned. Design documents that contain views for queries
    across multiple partitions must contain the ``"partitioned": false``
    member in the ``"options"`` object.

.. note::

    Design documents are either partitioned or global. They cannot
    contain a mix of partitioned and global indexes.

And to see a request showing us all sensors in a field we would use a
request like:

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl -u adm:pass http://127.0.0.1:15984/my_new_db/_design/all_sensors/_view/by_field
    {"total_rows":1,"offset":0,"rows":[
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":"Bob's Corn Field #5","value":"sensor-260"}
    ]}

Notice that we're not using the ``/dbname/_partition/...`` path for global

> queries. This is because global queries by definition to not cover a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
queries. This is because global queries, by definition, do not cover individual
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

> partition. Other than having the `"partitioned": false` parameter in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
partitions. Other than having the `"partitioned": false` parameter in the
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _partitioned-dbs:

=====================
Partitioned Databases
=====================

> 

Reviewer 3: I feel like there should be a 1-sentence summary of what Partitioned Databases are, right here, before you go into the motivating example.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

        "field_name": "Bob's Corn Field #5",
        "readings": [
            ["2019-01-21T00:00:00", 0.15],
            ["2019-01-21T06:00:00", 0.14],
            ["2019-01-21T12:00:00", 0.16],
            ["2019-01-21T18:00:00", 0.11]
        ]
    }

.. note::
    While this example uses IoT sensors, the main thing to consider is that
    there is a logical grouping of documents. Similar use cases might be
    documents grouped by user or scientific data grouped by experiment.

So we've got a bunch of sensors, all grouped by the field they monitor
along with their readouts for a given day (or other appropriate time period).

Along with our documents we might expect to have two secondary indexes
for querying our database that might look something like:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf("sensor-reading-") != 0) {
            return;
        }
        for(var r in doc.readings) {
            emit([doc.sensor_id, r[0]], r[1])
        }
    }

and:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf("sensor-reading-") != 0) {
            return;
        }
        emit(doc.field_name, doc.sensor_id)
    }

> With these two indexes defined we can easily find all requests for a given

Reviewer 3: I think you mean 'readings' not 'requests' here.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

sensor, or list all sensors in a given field.

Unfortunately, in CouchDB, when we read from either of these indexes, it
requires finding a copy of every shard and asking for any documents related
to the particular sensor or field. This means that as our database scales

> up the number of shards, every index request must perform more work.

Reviewer 3: "more work, lots of which is unnecessary when we only care about a small number of documents" or something?

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

Fortunately for you, dear reader, partitioned databases were created to solve
this precise problem.

What is a partition?
====================

In the previous section, we introduced a hypothetical database that contains
sensor readings from an IoT field monitoring service. In this particular
use case, it's quite logical to group all documents by their ``sensor_id``
field. In this case, we would call the ``sensor_id`` the partition.

A good partition has two basic properties. First, it should have a high

> cardinality. That is, there is a large number of values for the partition.

Reviewer 3: Do you mean "There are a large number of documents per partition" or "There are a large number of partitions per database?" You should say which one you mean here. Pretty sure you mean the latter.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

A database that has a single partition would be an anti-pattern for this
feature. Secondly, the amount of data per partition should be "small". The
general recommendation is to limit individual partitions to less than ten

> gigabytes of data. Which, for the example of sensor documents, equates to roughly

Reviewer 3: "gigabytes (10 GB)"

will help this be more readable through automatic translation

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

60,000 years of data.

Why use partitions?
===================

The primary benefit of using partitioned databases is for the performance
of partitioned queries. Large databases with lots of documents often
have a similar pattern where there are groups of related documents that
are queried together often.

By using partitions, we can execute queries against these individual groups
of documents more efficiently by placing the entire group within a specific
shard on disk. Thus, the view engine only has to consult one copy of the
given shard range when executing a query instead of executing

> the query across all ``Q`` shards in the database.

Reviewer 3: lowercase q to match the rest of our documentation standards please

Also, might want to say that this means we don't have to wait for all q shards to respond or something, meaning the query is not just more efficient, but faster? Not sure.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

Partitions By Example
=====================

To create a partitioned database, we simply need to pass a query string

> parameter.

Reviewer 3: "parameter:"

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl -X PUT http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db?partitioned=true
    {"ok":true}

To see that our database is partitioned, we can look at the database
information:

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db
    {
      "cluster": {
        "n": 3,
        "q": 8,
        "r": 2,
        "w": 2
      },
      "compact_running": false,
      "data_size": 0,
      "db_name": "my_new_db",
      "disk_format_version": 7,
      "disk_size": 66784,
      "doc_count": 0,
      "doc_del_count": 0,
      "instance_start_time": "0",
      "other": {
        "data_size": 0
      },
      "props": {
        "partitioned": true
      },
      "purge_seq": "0-g1AAAAFDeJzLYWBg4M...",
      "sizes": {
        "active": 0,
        "external": 0,
        "file": 66784
      },
      "update_seq": "0-g1AAAAFDeJzLYWBg4M..."
    }

You'll now see that the ``"props"`` member contains ``"partitioned": true``.

.. note::

    The format for document ids in a partitioned database is
    ``partition:docid``. Every regular document (i.e., everything
    except design and local documents) in a partitioned database

>     must follow this format.

Reviewer 3: Can the trailing `docid` still contain more colons? Or is the number of colons in ``partition:docid`` limited to exactly 1?

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

.. note::

>     System databases are *not* allowed to be partitioned. This is

Reviewer 3: "System databases (such as `_users`) are *not*..."

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

Now that we have created a document, we can get some info about the partition
containing the document:

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db/_partition/sensor-260
    {
      "db_name": "my_new_db",
      "doc_count": 1,
      "doc_del_count": 0,
      "partition": "sensor-260",
      "sizes": {
        "active": 244,
        "external": 347
      }
    }

And we can also list all documents in a partition:

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> curl http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db/_partition/sensor-260/_all_docs
    {"total_rows": 1, "offset": 0, "rows":[
        {
            "id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf",
            "key":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf",
            "value": {"rev": "1-05ed6f7abf84250e213fcb847387f6f5"}
        }
    ]}

Note that we can use all of the normal bells and whistles available to
``_all_docs`` requests. Accessing ``_all_docs`` through the
``/dbname/_partition/name/_all_docs`` endpoint is mostly a convenience
so that requests are guaranteed to be scoped to a given partition. Users
are free to use the normal ``/dbname/_all_docs`` to read documents from

> multiple partitions.

Reviewer 3: maybe add: "Both query styles have the same performance"?

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

Next, we'll create a design document containing our index for
getting all readings from a given sensor. The map function is similar to
our earlier example except we've accounted for the change in the document
id.

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf(":sensor-reading-") < 0) {
            return;
        }
        for(var r in doc.readings) {
            emit([doc.sensor_id, r[0]], r[1])
        }
    }

> We can upload our design document and try out a partitioned

Reviewer 3: "After uploading our design document, we can try out a partitioned"

(because you don't actually show uploading the ddoc anywhere)

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

query:

.. code-block:: bash

>     shell> cat ddoc.json

Reviewer 3: Since you leave out the PUT of the ddoc, maybe just skip to the `curl` statement at L297 here. I get you're trying to show the lack of the `partitioned: false` value, so the other option is to show an ellipsis (`...`) between this and the next `curl` to show you're skipping the ddoc upload in the example.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

    {
        "_id": "_design/sensor-readings",
        "views": {
            "by_sensor": {
                "map": "function(doc) { ... }"
            }
        }
    }
    shell> curl http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db/_partition/sensor-260/_design/sensor-readings/_view/by_sensor
    {"total_rows":4,"offset":0,"rows":[
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","0"],"value":null},
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","1"],"value":null},
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","2"],"value":null},
    {"id":"sensor-260:sensor-reading-ca33c748-2d2c-4ed1-8abf-1bca4d9d03cf","key":["sensor-260","3"],"value":null}
    ]}

Hooray! Our first partitioned query. For experienced users, that may not
be the most exciting development, given that the only things that have
changed are a slight tweak to the document id, and accessing views with
a slightly different path. However, for anyone who likes performance

> improvements, its actually a big deal. By knowing that the view results

Reviewer 3: "it's" because "it is" actually a big deal.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.

are all located within the provided partition name, our partitioned
queries now perform nearly as fast as document lookups!

The last thing we'll look at is how to query data across multiple partitions.
For that, we'll implement the example sensors by field query from our
initial example. The map function will use the same update to account
for the new document id format, but is otherwise identical to the previous
version:

.. code-block:: javascript

    function(doc) {
        if(doc._id.indexOf(":sensor-reading-") < 0) {
            return;
        }
        emit(doc.field_name, doc.sensor_id)
    }

Next we'll create a new design doc with this function. Be sure to notice
that the ``"options"`` member contains ``"partitioned": false``.

.. code-block:: bash

    shell> cat ddoc2.json
    {
      "_id": "_design/all_sensors",
      "options": {
        "partitioned": false
      },
      "views": {
        "by_field": {
          "map": "function(doc) { ... }"
        }
      }
    }

>     shell> $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://127.0.0.1:5984/my_new_db -d @ddoc2.json

Reviewer 3: Here you show the ddoc upload. Go figure. :stuck_out_tongue:

Reviewer 2: Addressed in 347a6ce.
